README.md, before:

[![PSL incubating](https://img.shields.io/badge/PSL-incubating-ff69b4.svg)](https://www.PSLmodels.org)

# <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PSLmodels/Git-Tutorial/master/jb_git_tutorial/_static/logo/jb_git_tutorial_logo.png" width=40 /> Git and GitHub Use, Collaboration, and Workflow (*IN PROGRESS*)
This repository will house the `Git` and [GitHub.com](https://github.com/) tutorial and training that many contributors to the [PSLmodels](https://github.com/PSLmodels) community use. This project uses [Jupyter Book](https://jupyterbook.org/intro.html) 0.7.1 to create the HTML and Jupyter notebook forms of the tutorial. We hope to add tutorial videos at some point in the future.


## Contributing to the book

We welcome contributions and updates to the content of the book. This is done by following fork/edit/pull-request workflow.

From your fork of this repository, you can generate your own version of the book by creating and activating a customized conda environment (virtual environment) and using the Jupyter Book build commands.


### Setting up the virtual environment

The virtual environment specifications are defined in the [`environment.yml`]() file. If you have not set up the conda environment, navigate to your `Git-Tutorial` repository folder in your terminal on your local machine and execute the following two commands. If you have already created the conda environment, then simply activate it using the second command below (skip the first command).

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate jb-git-tutorial
```


### Building a Jupyter Book

Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
jb build ./jb_git_tutorial
```

If you would like to work with a clean build, you can empty the build folder by running:

```bash
jb clean ./jb_git_tutorial
```

If jupyter execution is cached, this command will not delete the cached folder.

To remove the build folder (including `cached` executables), you can run:

```bash
jb clean --all ./jb_git_tutorial
```

## Notes

Put notes here.

Commit message:

Added Jason DeBacker as a coauthor

README.md, after:

[![PSL incubating](https://img.shields.io/badge/PSL-incubating-ff69b4.svg)](https://www.PSLmodels.org)

# <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PSLmodels/Git-Tutorial/master/jb_git_tutorial/_static/logo/jb_git_tutorial_logo.png" width=40 /> Git and GitHub Use, Collaboration, and Workflow (*IN PROGRESS*)
This repository will house the `Git` and [GitHub.com](https://github.com/) tutorial and training that many contributors to the [PSLmodels](https://github.com/PSLmodels) community use. This project uses [Jupyter Book](https://jupyterbook.org/intro.html) 0.7.1 to create the HTML and Jupyter notebook forms of the tutorial. We hope to add tutorial videos at some point in the future. This project is maintained by [Richard W. Evans](https://sites.google.com/site/rickecon/) and [Jason DeBacker](https://www.jasondebacker.com/).


## Contributing to the book

We welcome contributions and updates to the content of the book. This is done by following fork/edit/pull-request workflow.

From your fork of this repository, you can generate your own version of the book by creating and activating a customized conda environment (virtual environment) and using the Jupyter Book build commands.


### Setting up the virtual environment

The virtual environment specifications are defined in the [`environment.yml`]() file. If you have not set up the conda environment, navigate to your `Git-Tutorial` repository folder in your terminal on your local machine and execute the following two commands. If you have already created the conda environment, then simply activate it using the second command below (skip the first command).

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate jb-git-tutorial
```


### Building a Jupyter Book

Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
jb build ./jb_git_tutorial
```

If you would like to work with a clean build, you can empty the build folder by running:

```bash
jb clean ./jb_git_tutorial
```

If jupyter execution is cached, this command will not delete the cached folder.

To remove the build folder (including `cached` executables), you can run:

```bash
jb clean --all ./jb_git_tutorial
```

## Notes

Put notes here.
