_sources/content/glossary.md, before:

(chap_glossary)=
# Glossary

```{glossary}
Application programming interface
  An application programming interface or API is the medium, method, and rules through which a user interacts with software. The API includes a medium which can be a {term}`command line interface` on a specific {term}`local` terminal or a {term}`graphical user interface`. The API also defines the commands through which a user interacts with the software.

Clone
  Clone can be a verb or a noun in the context of {term}`Git` software. A clone is a {term}`local` copy of a {term}`remote` {term}`repository` with its entire Git {term}`distributed version control system` history. To *clone* a repository is to use the `git clone [repo path]` command to copy a remote repository to your local machine with the accompanying Git version control history.

Cloud
  Cloud can be a descriptor or a noun. As a descriptor, cloud refers to computational resources, such as servers, that are accessed remotely via the internet. As a noun, remote computational resources and storage can be referred to generically as "the cloud".

Command line interface
  A command line interface or CLI...

Continuous integration
  Continuous integration or continuous integration unit testing is...

Distributed version control system
  A distributed version control system or DVCS is {term}`version control system` software on any computer, {term}`local` or {term}`remote`, that tracks the entire history of changes to a {term}`repository`. It is distributed in the sense that multiple {term}`clone`s of a single {term}`remote` repository have the same full history of that repository.

Git
  Git is an open source {term}`distributed version control system` software that resides on your local computer and tracks changes and the history of changes to all the files in a directory or {term}`repository`. See the Git website [https://git-scm.com/](https://git-scm.com/) and the [Git Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) {cite}`GitWiki2020` for more information.

GitHub
  *GitHub* or [*GitHub.com*](https://github.com/) is a cloud software development platform designed to enable scalable, efficient, and secure version controlled collaboration by linking {term}`local` {term}`Git` version controlled software development by developers. *GitHub*'s main footprint is a collection of millions of version controlled code repositories. In addition, *GitHub*'s primary features include code review, project management, {term}`continuous integration` {term}`unit testing`, {term}`GitHub Actions`, and associated web page and documentation hosting and deployment.

GitHub Actions
  GitHub Actions

Graphical user interface
  A graphical user interface or GUI...

Integrated development environment
  Integrated development environment or IDE is a software application that comsolidates many of the functions of software development under one program. IDE's often include a code editor, object memory and identification, debugger, and build automation tools. (See [IDE Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_development_environment) {cite}`GitIDE2020`.)

Local
  Local is a descriptor that refers to files that reside or operations that are performed on a user's machine to which he or she has direct access without using the internet.

Local version control system
  A local version control system or LVCS is {term}`version control system` is the simplest and most common approach to VCS. LVCS stores all the changes to the files in a {term}`repository` locally on the user's machine as a series of changes or deltas in the files. This is the approach taken by Apple's Time Machine backup software as most software that includes an "undo" function.

Open source
  *Open source* is a descriptor that is usually applied to software or computer code projects, but can also be applied to any project based upon or represented by digital files. An open source project is one in which the source code is freely available to be downloaded and used and in which collaboration, improvements, and changes to the code are encouraged. The free download and use (outward direction) aspect of *open source* is often emphasized. But the collaboration and improvement contribution (inward direction) aspect is at least as important. {term}`Git` and {term}`GitHub` have enabled efficient and scalable collaboration to a degree not seen in other collaborative workflows.

Remote
  Remote is a descriptor that refers to files that reside or operations that are carried out on a server to which a user has access using the internet.

Repository
  A repository or "repo" is a directory containing files that are tracked by a version control system. A local repository resides on a local machine. A remote repository resides in the cloud.

Unit testing
  Unit testing is...

Version control system
  Version control system or version control software or VCS is software that records changes to a set of files, including the order in which the changes were made and the content of those changes, in such a way that previous versions can be recalled or restored.
```

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from  @ b86676b27bd91b0f2c803108246ea55a5172dd20 🚀

_sources/content/glossary.md, after:

(chap_glossary)=
# Glossary

```{glossary}
Application programming interface
  An application programming interface or API is the medium, method, and rules through which a user interacts with software. The API includes a medium which can be a {term}`command line interface` on a specific {term}`local` terminal or a {term}`graphical user interface`. The API also defines the commands through which a user interacts with the software.

Bitbucket
  *Bitbucket* or [*Bitbucket.org*](https://bitbucket.org/) is a {term}`cloud` {term}`source code management service` platform designed to enable scalable, efficient, and secure version controlled collaboration by linking {term}`local` {term}`Git` version controlled software development by developers.

Branch
  TODO: define branch

Centralized version control system
  A centralized version control system or CVCS is an approach to version control in which all the files in a {term}`repository` as well as the change history (content and timing) are located on a central {term}`remote` server. User's check out versions of files from the repository and check them back in, creating new change history on the central server.

Clone
  Clone can be a verb or a noun in the context of {term}`Git` software. A clone is a {term}`local` copy of a {term}`remote` {term}`repository` with its entire Git {term}`distributed version control system` history. To *clone* a repository is to use the `git clone [repo path]` command to copy a remote repository to your local machine with the accompanying Git version control history.

Cloud
  Cloud can be a descriptor or a noun. As a descriptor, cloud refers to computational resources, such as servers, that are accessed remotely via the internet. As a noun, remote computational resources and storage can be referred to generically as "the cloud".

Command line interface
  TODO: A *command line interface* or CLI...

Commit
  TODO: *Commit* can be a verb or a noun. Define commit...

Continuous integration
  Continuous integration or continuous integration unit testing is...

Distributed version control system
  A *distributed version control system* or DVCS is {term}`version control system` software on any computer, {term}`local` or {term}`remote`, that tracks the entire history of changes to a {term}`repository` and coordinates and organizes collaboration among multiple users. It is distributed in the sense that multiple {term}`clone`s of a single {term}`remote` repository have the same full history of that repository.

Fork
  TODO: define fork

Git
  *Git* is {term}`open source` {term}`version control system` software with capability designed to also operate as {term}`distributed version control system` (DVCS) software that resides on your local computer and tracks changes and the history of changes to all the files in a directory or {term}`repository`. See the Git website [https://git-scm.com/](https://git-scm.com/) and the [Git Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) {cite}`GitWiki2020` for more information.

GitHub
  *GitHub* or [*GitHub.com*](https://github.com/) is a {term}`cloud` {term}`source code management service` platform designed to enable scalable, efficient, and secure version controlled collaboration by linking {term}`local` {term}`Git` version controlled software development by users. *GitHub*'s main business footprint is hosting a collection of millions of version controlled code repositories. In addition to DVCS, *GitHub*'s primary features include code review, project management, {term}`continuous integration` {term}`unit testing`, {term}`GitHub Actions`, and associated web page and documentation hosting and deployment.

GitHub Actions
  GitHub Actions

Graphical user interface
  A graphical user interface or GUI...

Integrated development environment
  Integrated development environment or IDE is a software application that comsolidates many of the functions of software development under one program. IDE's often include a code editor, object memory and identification, debugger, and build automation tools. (See [IDE Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_development_environment) {cite}`GitIDE2020`.)

Local
  Local is a descriptor that refers to files that reside or operations that are performed on a user's machine to which he or she has direct access without using the internet.

Local version control system
  A local version control system or LVCS is the simplest and most common approach to VCS. LVCS stores all the changes to the files in a {term}`repository` locally on the user's machine as a series of changes or deltas in the files. This is the approach taken by Apple's Time Machine backup software as most software that includes an "undo" function.

Open source
  *Open source* is a descriptor that is usually applied to software or computer code projects, but can also be applied to any project based upon or represented by digital files. An open source project is one in which the source code is freely available to be downloaded and used and in which collaboration, improvements, and changes to the code are encouraged. The free download and use (outward direction) aspect of *open source* is often emphasized. But the collaboration and improvement contribution (inward direction) aspect is at least as important. {term}`Git` and {term}`GitHub` have enabled efficient and scalable collaboration to a degree not seen in other collaborative workflows.

Pull request
  TODO: define pull request

Remote
  Remote is a descriptor that refers to files that reside or operations that are carried out on a server to which a user has access using the internet.

Repository
  A repository or "repo" is a directory containing files that are tracked by a version control system. A local repository resides on a local machine. A remote repository resides in the cloud.

Source code management service
  A *source code management service* is a {term}`cloud` platform that hosts computer code files and provides either {term}`centralized version control system` (CVCS) or {term}`distributed version control system`. As the central hub of either CVCS or DVCS, the source code management service provides the platform and rules for distributed code collaboration. Leading examples are {term}`GitHub` and {term}`Bitbucket`.

Unit testing
  Unit testing is...

Version control system
  Version control system or version control software or VCS is software that records changes to a set of files, including the order in which the changes were made and the content of those changes, in such a way that previous versions can be recalled or restored.
```
